All right we're pushing on with more list methods we've seen so far a couple ways of adding to a list.
Now we're going to see how to remove things.
And there's a couple of options.
So the simplest way and possibly the least commonly used at least in my experience is clear clear we'll
remove all of the items in the list at once.
No matter what's in there it doesn't discriminate just gets rid of everything.
So here's an example.
We have a list 1 2 three four in the first list variable first list.
Clear.
We don't pass in anything.
So we need those empty parentheses in order to invoke it.
We'll talk more about what they do and what would happen if we left them off.
When we get to functions but just know we need the parentheses even if we don't put anything in them.
And now we looked at first list.
It's totally empty.
So I have a demo demo is a bit generous.
I have a list called items and this would be like a shopping cart.
So you might want to if a user signs out or they want to delete everything in their shopping cart you
could clear it all at once with items not clear.
And if you look at items it's not gone it's just empty.
But of course a lot of the time we don't want to remove everything from a list.
What if we just wanted to remove a single element.
Well one way to do that is by using POP.
So the way that pop works is that we pass in a particular index the index at which we want to delete
an item or if we don't pass in an index and we do empty parentheses it will remove the last item by
default.
So I also mentioned that it will return removes and returns will cover that in just a moment.
But if we had our first list one two three four and we just run a pop without specifying a number.
It removes the last item by default which is for.
So the list looks like one to three.
At this point then if we run pop again but this time I pass in one that is saying please remove the
item at the index of 1.
So that would be 0 1 which means 2.
So let's take a look at some code.
Let's rerun items here.
So I have this items list and if I just run items that pop just like this you can see that it returns
cat food.
So it takes the item off it takes cat food off it if you look at items it now is shorter doesn't have
cat food but it also doesn't just disappear.
It lets us capture cat food if we wanted to.
So I could make a variable like this last item equals items pop.
And if I did this if we look at items it's now gone down one more teapot is gone.
But if I look at last item it has the value of Tea-Pot stored inside of it.
We'll talk a lot more about what returning values actually means later on.
I know I'm saying that a lot in these couple of videos.
So we can also use POP let me restore items one more time.
So now it's back to its initial state where it has four items.
If I wanted to remove mug we can't find the index that's 0 1.
And so then I could do items pop one and that returns mug.
And if we look at items now Moag is gone.
And it doesn't leave an empty space behind or anything.
It's gone.
And the list shrinks around it.
So to delete the first thing from a list I could just do items.
And let's save it to variable again first equals items dot pop and the index of zero.
And if you look at first it has socks and items as teapot and cat food.
So we removed socks from the beginning.
So that's pop.
You don't pass in a value.
It removes the last thing by default.
If you do pass in an index it removes the item at that index and in both cases it returns the removed
item.
If you want to capture it and do something with it.
OK.
So you might be feeling a bit overwhelmed by all these methods.
That's OK.
There's a lot of them don't feel like you need to memorize all of them.
I'm going to try and give you a lot of opportunity to practice lots of quizzes and exercises.
But even then this is not something that you need to memorize or you shouldn't feel like you have to
just sit there and memorize it right away.
It will come with time.
The last method will take a look at which has to do with removing items from lists is a bit different.
It's called remove.
Easy to remember and it works a little bit different in that we actually provide an item of value that
we want to remove not an index so it will remove the first item from a list whose value is X meaning
we pass an X and it will find the first match and remove it.
Whatever the index is and if it doesn't find that item it throws an error.
So here's an example.
This list has 1 2 3 4 4 4.
And if I run dot remove two it's going to find the first instance of 2 which is right here.
It's the only one and it removes it out leaving us with 1 3 4 4 4.
But if we try to remove 4 There's multiple fours it will only remove the first one.
And so we end up with 1 3 4 4.
So this is useful if you're not sure where something is in a list but you want to remove it.
You can use dot remove.
We should also note that it does not return the item that was removed because you know already what
you're trying to remove.
So if you need that value you know we have to write here we're telling it to remove too.
OK.
So let's do an example.
Let's make a list called names and names will be a list and it will have a couple of fast forward through
this OK.
Well my computer shut down halfway through that but I'm back here now with a completed list of names.
And there's a couple in it.
My name is on here twice.
So let's do names dot remove and I want to remove blue because she's a cat.
And these are all people.
And if I look at names now blue is gone.
If I did the same thing for colds the first time it removes this version but it still leaves cold there.
So if we can do it over time and now this list has no cult in it.
And lastly if I tried to remove something that isn't in the list like hey Seuss I get this value error
list remove x x is not in the list.
We haven't learned how to handle errors or do anything when we get error.
So for now it's just good to know that it generates an error.
OK so three ways of removing items.
The first one is like taking a sledgehammer to your list.
It removes everything clear.
Then we saw pop which pop on its own without any data passed in without an index specified we'll delete
the last item and return it.
But if you provide an index it removes the item at that index and returns it and finally remove is a
bit different in that we pass in a value we want to remove if it finds it it will remove the first instance.
Otherwise it throws an error.
OK.
Three more methods under our belt.